for this we are acquiring gold answers to the evaluation topics from
agricultural experts. An example answer generated by the BART
model not fine-tuned (zero-shot) on our collection is provided in
Figure 3: this shows that some of the answers are still of acceptable
quality, even though in-domain fine-tuning has not occurred yet.
4.6
Conversation Management with Macaw
AgAsk employs the Macaw conversational information seeking
framework [16], as it provides a convenient way of building an
entire pipeline from scratch. The Macaw framework consists of
several modules, including intent identification, co-reference res-
olution, query generation, retrieval model, and result generation.
Currently, we have disabled the intent identification, co-reference
resolution, query generation, file IO, and standard command line
IO modules. We have instead instantiated our own retrieval and
result generation modules, as detailed above, while we are in the
process of deploying in production relevant modules for intent
identification, relevance feedback, and question clarification.
5
RETRIEVAL MODEL EVALUATION
We perform an empirical evaluation to understand the effectiveness
of the retrieval model used by AgAsk. We use the previously detailed
agricultural passage collection. As for topics we form a set of 210
natural language questions provided by two agricultural experts
and representing a range of grower related questions. The 210
topics were divided into 160 train and 50 test. The same experts
performed a relevance assessment of these topics and passages from
the AgAsk collection. The resulting test collection is the subject of
a forthcoming publication currently in preparation.
The following retrieval models were evaluated (all these also
contributed to the pool for relevance assessment):
• BM25+TILDEv2, the underlying model of AgAsk (Section 4.4),
fine-tuned on the 160 training topics, with BM25 stage 1 imple-
mented using the Pyserini toolkit [8].
• BM25+monoBERT, a comparative baseline using the same BM25
stage 1, that uses a BERT-based cross-encoder pre-trained on MS-
MARCO and fine-tuned on the 160 training topics.
• BM25, a basic baseline and the same stage 1 retriever for the above
two models.
Evaluation results on the 50 test topics are reported in Figure 4.
There was a large difference in effectiveness between the first-stage
term-based BM25 model and the neural re-rankers: monoBERT and
TILDEv2 provided a far more effective top-5 re-ranking than the
initial BM25 ranking (differences are statistically significant, two-
tailed paired t-test, 𝑝< 0.01). However, it’s worth noting that for
measures like success@100, BM25 was highly effective. This meant
that BM25 retrieved the relevant passages, but was not effective
at ranking them (low effectiveness for measures that consider top
ranked results; e.g., nDCG@5). This tells us that using BM25 for
initial retrieval was useful, if followed by a high-precision re-ranker.
We recall that the answer generation component, powered by BART,
only considers a handful of top-ranked passages (for efficiency
reasons), and thus a high effectiveness in early rank measures
will likely result in effective answer generation. Furthermore, if
the answer generation component was disabled, simply returning
passages to the user, then in a conversational setting these would
likely only be the first few retrieved ones, e.g. three or five, rather
than a long list.
MonoBERT was the most effective model. If you consider a live
question-answering system that might provide three possible an-
swers to a user’s question (e.g., in a conversational or mobile setting)
then success@3 would be the measure to consider. In this setting

WSDM ’23, February 27-March 3, 2023, Singapore, Singapore
Hang Li, Bevan Koopman, Ahmed Mourad, & Guido Zuccon
monoBERT provided a success@3 of 0.96: 48/50 topics had a rele-
vant passage in the top 3 results. We posit this would make for a
highly effective production system if the results generalise.
While monoBERT was highly effective, it was computationally
expensive. Query latency would make it prohibitive to real users
in an online passage retrieval setting; for example, re-ranking the
top 1,000 passages from BM25 took on average 23.1 seconds in
our experiments, based on a high performance cluster based on
Nvidia Tesla V100 GPUs. This time would be further compounded
with the time required for answer generation (also requiring GPU
for inference) and by the additional modules in AgAsk, e.g., intent
identification. TILDEv2, while less effective, was far more efficient,
and could be deployed on commodity hardware. These trade-offs
between monoBERT and TILDEv2 were shown in previous work
too, which have also considered energy (and thus running) costs
required by the methods [13, 17].
In this evaluation we have focused on only the passage retrieval
and not the answer generation. Recall that one setting of AgAsk
was to just display passages; the other is to feed these passages to
the BART answer generation model. To evaluate answer generation
we need to form a new test collection that contains gold standard
answers to each topic (rather than relevant passages). Forming this
test collection and the evaluation of BART is left to future work.
6
HOW DOES AGASK COMPARE TO EXISTING
SYSTEMS?
While several prior works have targeted open-domain conversa-
tional question answering [3, 5, 7, 12], domain-specific question
answering in agriculture have attracted less attention.
Mostaco et al. [10] proposed AgronomoBot, which is a chatbot
developed for the search and display of data acquired from a Wire-
less Sensor Network deployed on a vineyard. The bot is also based
on the Telegram API and is able to access information collected by
field sensors, providing it back to the users through interactions.
Unlike AgAsk, AgronomoBot is highly tailored to information from
the sensors. It cannot answer broader questions regarding growing
decisions; users still need to interpret